Five classic components of a computer: input, output, memory, datapath, and control. 
The last two components are often combined and defined as the processor. 

Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) - controlls the transmission of light. 
LCD contains rod shaped molecules in a liquid that form a twisting helix that bends light that enters the display. This light is either a light source or a reflected light. 
Rods straighten out when a current is applied and no longer bend the light. 
Liquid Crystal is between two screens polarized at 90 degrees. Light cannot pass through these unless it is bent. 
Most LCDs now use an active matrix containing a tiny transistor switch at each pixel which controlls current precisely making sharper images. RGB mask is associated with each dot determines the intensity of the three color components in the final image. Three transistor switches at each point. 
The image is composed of a matrix of pixels, which can be represented as a matrix of bits, called a bit map. 
Computer hardware support for graphics consist mainly of a raster refresh buffer, or frame buffer. 
The onscreen image is stored in the frame buffer, and the bit pattern per pixel is read out to the grahpics display at the refresh rate. 

Datapath, memory, and control are all very small portions of the components. 

integrated circuits aka chips combine dozens to millions of transistors. 
CPU contains datapath, and control which does arithmetic, testing, and I/O. 
Datapath performs arithmetic. 
Control commands the datapath, memory, and I/O devices according to the instructions of the program. 
Memory is the storage area in whcih programs are kept when running... contains data needed by the running programs. 
DRAM is memory built as an integrated circuit. Gives random access to any location. Fast access times. 
Multiple DRAMS are used together to contain instructions and data of a program. 
Inside memory is cache memory. This is fast memory acting as a buffer for DRAM memory. 
Cache is built using static RAM (SRAM). Faster than DRAM. (SRAM and DRAM are two layers of the memory hierarchy)

One of the most important abstractions is the interface between hardawre and lowest-level software. 
Instruction set architecture - includes anything programmers need to know to mke a binary machine language program work correctly. Allows computer designers to talk about functions independent from the hardware. 
Application Binary Interface (ABI) - combo of basic instruction set and OS interface for application programmers 
Implementation - hardware that obeys the architecture abstration. 

Hardware and software have hierarchical layers using abstraction, each lower layer hiding details from the next layer up. 
One key interface between levels of abstraction is the instruction set architecture- the interface between the hardare and low-level software. Enables many implementations of varying cost and performance to run identical software. 

Volatile memory forgets once power is lost. 
A disk is nonvolatile. 

Primary memory is Volatile memory. 
Secondary memory is nonvolatile memory. 
Below that is magnetic and hard disks. 

Flash memory is nonvolatile, cheaper and slower than DRAM, but more expensive per bit and faster than magnetic disks.
  